New doc for cluster policies (#3891)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-advanced-cluster-policies.md

---
title: "Airflow cluster policies"
sidebar_label: "Cluster policies"
description: "Learn about everything you need to use the Apache Airflow cluster policies."
id: airflow-cluster-policies
tags: [cluster policies]
---

Cluster policies are a set of functions that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:

- DAG
- Task
- Task Instance
- Pod
- Airflow Context variables

> These policies allow administrators to centrally manage how Airflow users or DAG writers are interacting with the Airflow Cluster. They can modify or restrict their capability based on organization policy or ensure that users conform to common standards. For example, you want to ensure all the DAGs have `tags` before being deployed to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These policies allow administrators to centrally manage how Airflow users or DAG writers are interacting with the Airflow Cluster. Cluster policies can modify or restrict user's capability based on organization policy or ensure that users conform to common standards. For example, you may want to ensure all DAGs have `tags` before being deployed to production.
```

> These cluster policies can be used to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster policies can be used to:
```

> - Check if the DAGs/Tasks meet certain standards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check if DAGs/Tasks meet certain standards
```

> - Setting default arguments on DAGs/Tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set default arguments on DAGs/Tasks
```

> - Perform custom routing/skipping logic on the DAGs or Tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Perform custom routing/skipping logic on DAGs or Tasks
```
I'm not sure what this means - not sure if that's my own knowledge gap, or if it would be helpful to add some additional context here for the avg user?

> In this guide, you'll learn about the types of cluster policies, how these policies work, and how to implement these in Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you'll learn about the types of cluster policies, how they policies work, and how to implement them in Airflow.
```

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).
- Astro CLI. See [Get started with Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/get-started-cli)

> ## Main types of cluster policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Types of cluster policies
```

> - `dag_policy`: This policy is applicable to a DAG object, and takes a DAG object `dag` as a parameter. It runs at load time of the DAG from the `DagBag`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three types of cluster policies you can use in Airflow:

- `dag_policy`: This policy is applicable to a DAG object, and takes a DAG object `dag` as a parameter. It runs at the time the DAG is loaded from the `DagBag`.
```

Reviewer: Taking out "main" here since based on the description it seems like there are only 3. If there are actually more, but we're only talking about these 3, we should say that explicitly and explain why.

- `task_policy` : This policy is applicable to a Task object. It gets executed when the task is created during parsing of the task from DagBag at load time. This means that the whole task definition can be altered in the task policy. It does not relate to a specific task running in a `DagRun`. The `task_policy` defined is applied to all the task instances that will be executed in the future.
- `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at run time. It takes a TaskInstance object `task_instance` as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (i.e. instance) of that task. It is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker, not in the dag file processor, just before the task instance is executed. 

> ## How the cluster policies work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How cluster policies work
```

> Cluster policies can be implemented using either the `airflow_local_settings.py` or the `pluggy` interface. Any attributes defined using cluster policies take precedence over the attributes defined in your DAG or Task. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster policies can be implemented using either your `airflow_local_settings.py` file or the `pluggy` interface. Any attributes defined using cluster policies take precedence over the attributes defined in your DAG or Task. 
```
Do we need to add a follow-up sentence here about how they're implemented in Astro? I know you cover that below, but might be helpful to mention it here in case somebody is reading through the whole guide.

> The DAG and Task cluster policies can raise the `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception to indicate that the DAG or Task they were passed are not compliant and should not be loaded. This is exception is displayed on the Airflow web UI as an `import error`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once implemented, if any DAGs or tasks are not compliant with your set policies, the policy will raise the `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception and the DAG will not be loaded. This is exception is displayed on the Airflow web UI as an `import error`. 
```

> You can use `AirflowClusterPolicySkipDag` exception to skip a DAG. Note that this exception will not be displayed on the Airflow web UI.

Reviewer: Can we add a bit more context here on what this means or why you would want to use it?

### DAG policy

> DAG policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure DAG’a parameters as required. It allows you to: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DAG policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a DAG’s parameters based on the criteria you set. It allows you to: 
```

- Mutate a DAG object after it is loaded in the DagBag.
- Run code after your DAG has been fully generated. 

This means that the DAG processor still parses all DAG files even if it is skipped using a DAG policy.

> **Example implementations:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some example implementations include:
```

> - Enforce default owner for the DAGs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enforce a default owner for your DAGs.
```

- Enforce certain tags for DAGs, either default or based on conditions.

> - Enforce development DAGs do not run in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure development DAGs do not run in production.
```

- Stop a DAG from being executed by raising a `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception

> Note that, `dag_policy` is applied before `task_policy` and after the DAG has been completely loaded. Hence, overriding the `default_args` parameter has no effect using `dag_policy`. If you want to override the default operator settings, use task policies instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `dag_policy` is applied before the `task_policy` and after the DAG has been completely loaded. Hence, overriding the `default_args` parameter has no effect using `dag_policy`. If you want to override the default operator settings, use task policies instead.
```

```python
@hookimpl
def ensure_dags_are_tagged(dag: "DAG") -> None:
    tag_labels = [tag.split(":")[0] 
    for tag in dag.tags]
        if not "Owner" in tag_labels:
            raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{dag.dag_id} does not have a 'Owner' tag defined.")
```

### Task policy

> Task policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a task’s parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a task’s parameters. 
```

- Mutates tasks after they have been added to a DAG.
- It expects a `BaseOperator` as a parameter and you can configure skip/deny exceptions.

> **Example implementations:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some example implementations include:
```

- Enforce a task timeout policy.
- Using a different environment for different operators.
- Override a `on_success_callback` or `on_failure_callback` for a task.

```python
@hookimpl
def task_policy(task: "BaseOperator") -> None:
	min_timeout = datetime.timedelta(hours=24)
	if not task.execution_timeout or task.execution_timeout > min_timeout:
		raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{task.dag.dag_id}:{task.task_id} time out isgreater than {min_timeout}")
```

### Task Instance mutation hook

Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before being queued by the Airflow scheduler. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”, whereas task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution.

> **Example implementations:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some example implementations include:
```

- Enforce a specific queue for certain Airflow Operators.
- Modify a task instance between retries.

```python
@hookimpl
def task_instance_mutation_hook(task_instance:TaskInstance):
	if task_instance.try_number >= 3:
		task_instance.queue = "big-machine"
```

:::tip

Note that since priority weight is determined dynamically using weight rules, you cannot alter the `priority_weight` of a task instance within the Task Instance mutation hook.

:::

> ### Pod mutation hook

Reviewer: Why is this one not listed above under types of cluster policies?

This policy is applicable to Kubernetes Pod created at run time when using the `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor`. This is a original policy function that allows altering `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before they are passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling.

This could be used, for instance, to add sidecar or init containers to every worker pod launched.

> **Example implementation:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some example implementations include:
```

- Set resource requests and limits.
- Increase resources assigned to a Pod.

```python
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
from airflow.policies import hookimpl

@hookimpl
def pod_mutation_hook(pod) -> None:
    print("hello from pod_mutation_hook ",type(pod))
    print("spec : ", pod.spec)
    print("container base ", pod.spec.containers[0])
    print("container base type", type(pod.spec.containers[0]))

    resources = k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
        requests={
            "cpu": "100m",
            "memory": "256Mi",
        },
        limits={
            "cpu": "1000m",
            "memory": "1Gi",
        },
    )
    pod.spec.containers[0].resources = resources
```

## Implementation

> Policies can be implemented using using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is used for plugin management, and gives the ability to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policies can be implemented using using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is used for plugin management, and allows you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.
```

Reviewer: `You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.`
Is this something we would expect the average airflow user to know how to do? Is there documentation on doing this somewhere else that we could link to? Or is this what you're describing below?

Author: that is what I am describing. but may be i could elaborate if it's not self-explanatory.

:::info

Using the `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions earlier than 2.6, you can use `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file under your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your policies. See [Airflow docs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function).

:::

### Create a package for your plugin

> Create a package with the following structure for your plugin named `my_plugin`.

Reviewer: We should have instructions up front here on where you add this package - is it in the `plugins` folder if working from an Astro project?

```bash
my_plugin/
│
├── my_plugin/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── policy.py
│
├── pyproject.toml
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
└── setup.cfg
```

1. In the `pyproject.toml` file, add the following:

> ```bash

Reviewer: You'll want to indent these code blocks so they render within the numbered sections.

---
title: "Airflow cluster policies"
sidebar_label: "Cluster policies"
description: "Learn about everything you need to use the Apache Airflow cluster policies."
id: airflow-cluster-policies
tags: [cluster policies]
---

> Cluster policies are a set of functions that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster policies are sets of functions that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:
```

> Cluster policies are a set of functions that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster policies are sets of rules that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:
```

- DAG
- Task
- Task Instance
- Pod
- Airflow Context variables

> These policies allow administrators to centrally manage how Airflow users or DAG writers are interacting with the Airflow Cluster. Cluster policies can modify or restrict a user's capability based on organization policy or ensure that users conform to common standards. For example, you may want to ensure all DAGs have `tags` in your production Airflow environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These policies allow administrators to centrally manage how Airflow users or DAG writers are interacting with the Airflow Cluster. Cluster policies can modify or restrict a user's capability based on organization policy or ensure that users conform to common standards. For example, you might want to ensure all DAGs have `tags` in your production Airflow environment.
```

Cluster policies can be used to, for example, centrally:

- Enforce Task or DAG-level retries
- Verify a DAG's `catchup` parameter based on production or development environment
- Limit the resources requested by a `KubernetesPodOperator`
- Routing critical jobs to a specific Celery `queue` or Airflow `pool`
- Add missing `tags` or `owner` emails

In this guide, you'll learn about the types of cluster policies, how the policies work, and how to implement them in Airflow.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- Basic Airflow concepts. See [Introduction to Apache Airflow](intro-to-airflow.md).

> - Astro CLI. See [Get started with Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/get-started-cli)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The Astro CLI. See [Get started with Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/get-started-cli)
```

## Types of cluster policies

> There are three types of cluster policies you can use in Airflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use three types of cluster policies in Airflow:
```

- `dag_policy`: This policy is applicable to a DAG object, and takes a DAG object `dag` as a parameter. It runs at the time the DAG is loaded from the `DagBag`.

> - `task_policy` : This policy is applicable to a Task object. It gets executed when the task is created during parsing of the task from DagBag at load time. This means that the whole task definition can be altered in the task policy. It does not relate to a specific task running in a `DagRun`. The `task_policy` defined is applied to all the task instances that will be executed in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `task_policy` : This policy is applicable to a Task object. It gets executed when the task is created during parsing of the task from `DagBag` at load time. This means that the whole task definition can be altered in the task policy. It does not relate to a specific task running in a `DagRun`. The `task_policy` defined is applied to all the task instances that will be executed in the future.
```

> - `task_policy` : This policy is applicable to a Task object. It gets executed when the task is created during parsing of the task from DagBag at load time. This means that the whole task definition can be altered in the task policy. It does not relate to a specific task running in a `DagRun`. The `task_policy` defined is applied to all the task instances that will be executed in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `task_policy` : This policy is applicable to a Task object. It gets executed when the task is created during parsing of the task from DagBag at load time. This means that the whole task definition can be altered in the task policy. It does not relate to a specific task running in a `DagRun`. The defined `task_policy` is applied to all the task instances that will be executed in the future.
```

> - `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at run time. It takes a TaskInstance object `task_instance` as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (i.e. instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the dag file processor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at run time. It takes a TaskInstance object, `task_instance`, as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (in other words, instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the DAG file processor. 
```

Reviewer 2: Nit-picky changes here. Our style guidelines don't allow Latin abbreviations such as "i.e."

> - `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at run time. It takes a TaskInstance object `task_instance` as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (i.e. instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the dag file processor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at runtime. It takes a TaskInstance object `task_instance` as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (i.e. instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the dag file processor. 
```

- `pod_mutation_hook`: This policy is applicable to a Kubernetes Pod launched by `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor` at runtime. It takes a Pod object `pod` as a parameter. This policy is applied to the `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before it is passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling. This cluster policy is available only from Aiflow version `2.6`.

## How cluster policies work

> Cluster policies can be implemented using either your `airflow_local_settings.py` file or the `pluggy` interface. Any attributes defined using cluster policies take precedence over the attributes defined in your DAG or Task. In Astro, you can only implement policies using the `pluggy` interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster policies can be implemented using either your `airflow_local_settings.py` file or the `pluggy` interface. Any attributes defined using cluster policies take precedence over the attributes defined in your DAG or Task. On Astro, you can only implement policies using the `pluggy` interface.
```

> Once implemented, if a DAG or task is not compliant with your set policies, the policy will raise the `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception and the DAG will not be loaded. This exception is displayed on the Airflow web UI as an `import error`. 

Reviewer 2: Nit-picky passive voice fix. Style guidelines say to avoid passive voice

You can also use the `AirflowClusterPolicySkipDag` exception to skip a DAG. For example, you may want to skip month-end DAGs from daily processing or skip any DAGs with the wrong environment tag. Another possible use case could be when you are migrating from a deprecated source system to a new one. You might want to skip the old DAGs to avoid any failures and alerts. Note that this exception will not be displayed on the Airflow web UI.

### DAG policy

The DAG policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a DAG’s parameters based on the criteria you set. It allows you to: 

> - Mutate a DAG object after it is loaded in the DagBag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Mutate a DAG object after it is loaded in the `DagBag`.
```

- Run code after your DAG has been fully generated. 

> This means that the DAG processor still parses all DAG files even if it is skipped using a DAG policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that the DAG processor still parses all DAG files even if you skip one using a DAG policy.
```

Some example implementations include:

> - Enforce a default owner for your DAGs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enforcing a default owner for your DAGs.
```

> - Enforce certain tags for DAGs, either default or based on conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enforcing certain tags for DAGs, either default or based on conditions.
```

> - Ensure development DAGs do not run in production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensuring development DAGs do not run in production.
```

> - Stop a DAG from being executed by raising an `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Stopping a DAG from being executed by raising an `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception.
```

Note that the `dag_policy` is applied before the `task_policy` and after the DAG has been completely loaded. Hence, overriding the `default_args` parameter has no effect using `dag_policy`. If you want to override the default operator settings, use task policies instead.
#### Example
```python
@hookimpl
def ensure_dags_are_tagged(dag: "DAG") -> None:
    tag_labels = [tag.split(":")[0] 
    for tag in dag.tags]
        if not "Owner" in tag_labels:
            raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{dag.dag_id} does not have a 'Owner' tag defined.")
```

### Task policy

> The task policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a task’s parameters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A task policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a task’s parameters. 
```

> - Mutates tasks after they have been added to a DAG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It mutates tasks after they have been added to a DAG.
```

> - It expects a `BaseOperator` as a parameter and you can configure skip/deny exceptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It expects a `BaseOperator` as a parameter, and you can configure skip/deny exceptions.
```

Some example implementations include:

> - Enforce a task timeout policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enforcing a task timeout policy.
```

- Using a different environment for different operators.

> - Override a `on_success_callback` or `on_failure_callback` for a task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Overriding a `on_success_callback` or `on_failure_callback` for a task.
```

#### Example

```python
@hookimpl
def task_policy(task: "BaseOperator") -> None:
    min_timeout = datetime.timedelta(hours=24)
    if not task.execution_timeout or task.execution_timeout > min_timeout:
        raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{task.dag.dag_id}:{task.task_id} time out isgreater than {min_timeout}")
```

### Task Instance mutation hook

:::info

If you are on Airflow version `2.9.1` or lower, you might see some inconsistencies in the application of `task_instance_mutation_hook`. This was fixed in Airflow `2.9.2`.

:::

> Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before being queued by the Airflow scheduler. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”, whereas task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before the Airflow scheduler queues them. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”. By contrast, task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution.
```

Some example implementations include:

> - Enforce a specific queue for certain Airflow Operators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Enforcing a specific queue for certain Airflow Operators.
```

> - Modify a task instance between retries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Modifying a task instance between retries.
```

#### Example

```python
@hookimpl
def task_instance_mutation_hook(task_instance:TaskInstance):
    if task_instance.try_number >= 3:
        task_instance.queue = "big-machine"
```

:::tip

> Note that since priority weight is determined dynamically using weight rules, you cannot alter the `priority_weight` of a task instance within the Task Instance mutation hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that since Airflow determines priority weight dynamically using weight rules, you cannot alter the `priority_weight` of a task instance within the Task Instance mutation hook.
```

:::

### Pod mutation hook

> This policy is applicable to Kubernetes Pod created at run time when using the `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor`. This is a policy function that allows altering `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before they are passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This policy is applicable to Kubernetes Pod created at runtime when using the `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor`. This is a policy function that allows altering an `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before Airflow passes it to the Kubernetes client for scheduling.
```

> This could be used, for instance, to alter the resoures for a Pod or to add sidecar or init containers to every worker pod launched. Astro, however, does not allow adding init or sidecar containers. [Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deployment-metrics) provides advanced logging, metrics collection, and multiple ways to manage your environment without the need to run separate containers to collect stats or apply environment settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, one could use this to alter the resources for a Pod or to add sidecar or init containers to every worker pod launched. Astro, however, does not allow adding init or sidecar containers. [Astro](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/deployment-metrics) provides advanced logging, metrics collection, and multiple ways to manage your environment without the need to run separate containers to collect stats or apply environment settings.
```

Some example implementations include:

> - Set resource requests and limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Setting resource requests and limits.
```

> - Increase resources assigned to a Pod.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increasing resources assigned to a Pod.
```

#### Example

```python
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
from airflow.policies import hookimpl

@hookimpl
def pod_mutation_hook(pod) -> None:
    print("hello from pod_mutation_hook ",type(pod))

    resources = k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
        requests={
            "cpu": "100m",
            "memory": "256Mi",
        },
        limits={
            "cpu": "1000m",
            "memory": "1Gi",
        },
    )
    pod.spec.containers[0].resources = resources
```

## Implementation

> Policies can be implemented using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is used for plugin management, and allows you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can implement policies using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is useful for plugin management, allowing you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement a `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.
```

Reviewer: @manmeetkaur you're not actually describing how to use a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module in this doc, are you? Is there an Airflow doc or something we could link to?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we describe how to use `pluggy` to implement cluster policies for an Astro project. If you are not using Astro, a similar implementation is possible but steps may vary slightly depending on your Airflow setup.
```
@manmeetkaur check me on how you want to word this - but I think we need something here stating that this is an astro-specific implementation, since most of Learn is OSS-focused.

:::info

> Using the `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions earlier than 2.6, you can use `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file under your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your [policies](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function). Note, that Astro only allows to use `pluggy` interface for implementing cluster policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions earlier than 2.6, you can use the `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file under your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your [policies](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function). Note that Astro only allows using `pluggy` to implement cluster policies.
```

> Using the `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions earlier than 2.6, you can use `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file under your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your [policies](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function). Note, that Astro only allows to use `pluggy` interface for implementing cluster policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions older than 2.6, you can use the `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file on your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your [policies](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function). Note that Astro only allows using `pluggy` for implementing cluster policies.
```

:::

### Create a package for your policies

> You can build a package for the cluster policies you want to apply to your Airflow environment. You can add this package to the `plugin` folder of your Astro project. You could then install it by [customizing your `Dockerfile`](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/customize-dockerfile). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can build a package for the cluster policies you want to apply to your Airflow environment. You can add this package to the `plugin` folder of your Astro project. You can then install it by [customizing your `Dockerfile`](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/customize-dockerfile). 
```

For example, you can create a package `my_package` with the following structure:

```bash
my_package/
│
├── my_package/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── policy.py
│
├── pyproject.toml
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
```

1. In the `pyproject.toml` file, add the following:

    ```bash
    [build-system]
    requires = ["setuptools >= 61.0"]
    build-backend = "setuptools.build_meta"

    [project]
    name = "my_package"
    version = "0.1.0"

    dependencies = ["apache-airflow>=2.6"]
    [project.entry-points.'airflow.policy']
    _ = 'my_package.policy'
    ```

> 2. Define the policies in `policy.py`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Define the policies in `policy.py`:
```

    ```python
    from airflow.policies import hookimpl
    from airflow.exceptions import AirflowClusterPolicyViolation

    @hookimpl
    def task_policy(task):
        print("Hello from task_policy")
        doc_str = "This is a test doc string"
        task.doc = doc_str

    @hookimpl
    def dag_policy(dag):
        """Ensure that DAG has at least one tag and skip the DAG with `only_for_beta` tag."""
        print("Hello from DAG policy")
        if not dag.tags:
            raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(
                f"DAG {dag.dag_id} has no tags. At least one tag required. File path: {dag.fileloc}"
            )
    ```

> 3. (Optional) Build the python package to generate the `wheel` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. (Optional) Build the python package to generate the `wheel` file:
```

    ```bash
    python -m build
    ```

> ### Setup your Astro project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Setup your Astro project
```

1. Initialize your Astro project using [Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/get-started-cli).
    

> 2. Run `astro dev init` to initialize a new Astro project or open your Astro project. 

Reviewer: Isn't this the same as step 1 above?

> 3. Copy over the plugin package to the `plugins` dirctory of an Astro project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Copy over the plugin package to the `plugins` directory of your Astro project. 
```

> 4. Add the following line to your `Dockerfile`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Add the following line to your `Dockerfile`:
```

    ```docker
    COPY plugins plugins
    RUN pip install ./plugins
    ```

> :::tip Alternate setup

Reviewer: Can we add some context here on when/why you might choose this alternate setup?

You can copy over the `wheel` file you built in Step 3 of [Create a package for your policies](#create-a-package-for-your-policies) to the `include` folder of your Astro project and add the following line to your `Dockerfile`:
```docker
RUN pip install include/my_package-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl
```
:::

> 5. For local Airflow, run `astro dev restart` to rebuild the Astro project. For Astro, run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Run `astro dev restart` to rebuild the Astro project locally. Run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Astro Deployment.
```

> 5. For local Airflow, run `astro dev restart` to rebuild the Astro project. For Astro, run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. For local Airflow, run `astro dev restart` to restart your local Astro instance. For Astro, run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Deployment.
```

> 5. For local Airflow, run `astro dev restart` to rebuild the Astro project. For Astro, run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Run `astro dev restart` to refresh your local Airflow instance. Run `astro deploy` to build and deploy to your Astro Deployment.
```

You can also use `AirflowClusterPolicySkipDag` exception to skip a DAG. For example, you might want to skip month-end DAGs from daily processing, or skip any DAGs that have the wrong environment tag. Another possible use case could be when you are migrating from a deprecated source system to a new one. You might want to skip the old DAGs to avoid any failures and alerts. Note that this exception will not be displayed on the Airflow web UI.

### DAG policy

The DAG policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a DAG’s parameters based on the criteria you set. It allows you to: 

- Mutate a DAG object after it is loaded in the DagBag.
- Run code after your DAG has been fully generated. 

This means that the DAG processor still parses all DAG files even if it is skipped using a DAG policy.

Some example implementations include:

- Enforce a default owner for your DAGs.
- Enforce certain tags for DAGs, either default or based on conditions.
- Ensure development DAGs do not run in production.

> - Stop a DAG from being executed by raising a `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Stop a DAG from being executed by raising an `AirflowClusterPolicyViolation` exception.
```

Note that the `dag_policy` is applied before the `task_policy` and after the DAG has been completely loaded. Hence, overriding the `default_args` parameter has no effect using `dag_policy`. If you want to override the default operator settings, use task policies instead.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

Reviewer 3: Add a title here to allow users to quickly jump to examples from the navigation menu.

```python
@hookimpl
def ensure_dags_are_tagged(dag: "DAG") -> None:
    tag_labels = [tag.split(":")[0] 
    for tag in dag.tags]
        if not "Owner" in tag_labels:
            raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{dag.dag_id} does not have a 'Owner' tag defined.")
```

### Task policy

The task policy allows you to overwrite or reconfigure a task’s parameters. 

- Mutates tasks after they have been added to a DAG.
- It expects a `BaseOperator` as a parameter and you can configure skip/deny exceptions.

Some example implementations include:

- Enforce a task timeout policy.
- Using a different environment for different operators.
- Override a `on_success_callback` or `on_failure_callback` for a task.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```python
@hookimpl
def task_policy(task: "BaseOperator") -> None:
	min_timeout = datetime.timedelta(hours=24)
	if not task.execution_timeout or task.execution_timeout > min_timeout:
		raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{task.dag.dag_id}:{task.task_id} time out isgreater than {min_timeout}")
```

> ### Task Instance mutation hook

Reviewer 3: Before Runtime 11, Task Instance Mutation Hook wasn't applied consistently (https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/38440)
Not sure how we want to mention this.

Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before being queued by the Airflow scheduler. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”, whereas task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution.

Some example implementations include:

- Enforce a specific queue for certain Airflow Operators.
- Modify a task instance between retries.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```python
@hookimpl
def task_instance_mutation_hook(task_instance:TaskInstance):
	if task_instance.try_number >= 3:
		task_instance.queue = "big-machine"
```

:::tip

Note that since priority weight is determined dynamically using weight rules, you cannot alter the `priority_weight` of a task instance within the Task Instance mutation hook.

:::

### Pod mutation hook

> This policy is applicable to Kubernetes Pod created at run time when using the `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor`. This is an original policy function that allows altering `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before they are passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This policy is applicable to Kubernetes Pod created at run time when using the `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor`. This is a policy function that allows altering `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before they are passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling.
```

> This could be used, for instance, to add sidecar or init containers to every worker pod launched. For example, you could use an init container to preload environment configuration or a sidecar container to collect metrics using StatsD. 

Reviewer 3: If we say in the tip below that Airflow doesn't allow this, maybe let's use a different example.

:::tip

Astro does not allow adding init or sidecar containers. Astro provides advanced logging, metrics collection, and multiple ways to manage your environment without the need to run separate containers. 

:::

Some example implementations include:

- Set resource requests and limits.
- Increase resources assigned to a Pod.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```python
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
from airflow.policies import hookimpl

@hookimpl
def pod_mutation_hook(pod) -> None:
    print("hello from pod_mutation_hook ",type(pod))
    print("spec : ", pod.spec)
    print("container base ", pod.spec.containers[0])
    print("container base type", type(pod.spec.containers[0]))

    resources = k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
        requests={
            "cpu": "100m",
            "memory": "256Mi",
        },
        limits={
            "cpu": "1000m",
            "memory": "1Gi",
        },
    )
    pod.spec.containers[0].resources = resources
```

## Implementation

> Policies can be implemented using using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is used for plugin management, and allows you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Policies can be implemented using the `pluggy` interface. `pluggy` is used for plugin management, and allows you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions. You can implement `pluggy` interface using a setup-tools entrypoint in a custom module.
```

:::info

> Using the `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions earlier than 2.6, you can use `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file under your `$AIRFLOW_HOME` to define your policies. See [Airflow docs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/cluster-policies.html#how-do-define-a-policy-function).

Reviewer 3: This is not possible in Astro, Consider removing or clarifying

:::

### Create a package for your policies

> You can build a package for the cluster policies you want to apply to your Airflow environment. You can add this package to the `include` folder of your Astro project. You could then install it by [customizing your `Dockerfile`](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/customize-dockerfile). 

Reviewer 3: I would recommend using the `plugin` folder instead.

```bash
my_package/
│
├── my_package/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── policy.py
│
├── pyproject.toml
├── README.md
├── LICENSE
└── setup.cfg
```

1. In the `pyproject.toml` file, add the following:

    ```bash
    [build-system]
    requires = ["setuptools", "wheel"]
    build-backend = "setuptools.build_meta"

    [project]
    name = "my_package"
    version = "0.1.0"

    dependencies = ["apache-airflow>=2.6"]
    [project.entry-points.'airflow.policy']
    _ = 'my_package.policy'
    ```

2. Define the policies in `policy.py`

    ```python
    from airflow.policies import hookimpl
    from airflow.exceptions import AirflowClusterPolicyViolation

    @hookimpl
    def task_policy(task):
        print("Hello from task_policy")
        doc_str = "This is a test doc string"
        task.doc = doc_str

    @hookimpl
    def dag_policy(dag):
        """Ensure that DAG has at least one tag and skip the DAG with `only_for_beta` tag."""
        print("Hello from DAG policy")
        if not dag.tags:
            raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(
                f"DAG {dag.dag_id} has no tags. At least one tag required. File path: {dag.fileloc}"
            )
    ```

> 3. In `setup.cfg` add the following:

Reviewer 3: You don't need setup.cfg if you are using pyproject.toml
See https://astronomer.slack.com/files/U01QJUJR4TW/F05MAKRCDAN/pluggy_example.zip

    ```bash

    [metadata]
    name = my-package
    version = 0.1.0
    author = your name
    author_email = youremail@email.com
    description = Policy package

    [options]
    packages = my_package

    [options.entry_points]
    airflow.policy =
    policy = my_package.policy

    ```

> 4. Build the `wheel` file:

Reviewer 3: Building a wheel is optional.

Some example implementations include:

- Enforcing a task timeout policy.
- Using a different environment for different operators.
- Overriding a `on_success_callback` or `on_failure_callback` for a task.

#### Example

```python
@hookimpl
def task_policy(task: "BaseOperator") -> None:
    min_timeout = datetime.timedelta(hours=24)
    if not task.execution_timeout or task.execution_timeout > min_timeout:
        raise AirflowClusterPolicyViolation(f"{task.dag.dag_id}:{task.task_id} time out isgreater than {min_timeout}")
```

### Task Instance policy

:::info

If you are on Airflow version `2.9.1` or lower, you might see some inconsistencies in the application of `task_instance_mutation_hook`. This was fixed in Airflow `2.9.2`.

:::

> Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before the Airflow scheduler queues them. You can implement Task Instance policy using the function `task_instance_mutation_hook`. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”. By contrast, task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution. It takes a TaskInstance object, `task_instance`, as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (in other words, instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the DAG file processor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Task Instance policy allows you to alter task instances before the Airflow scheduler queues them. You can implement a Task Instance policy using the function `task_instance_mutation_hook`. This is different from the `task_policy` function, which inspects and mutates tasks “as defined”. By contrast, task instance policies inspect and mutate task instances before execution. It takes a TaskInstance object, `task_instance`, as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (in other words, instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the DAG file processor. 
```

---
title: "Airflow cluster policies"
sidebar_label: "Cluster policies"
description: "Learn about everything you need to use the Apache Airflow cluster policies."
id: airflow-cluster-policies
tags: [cluster policies]
---

Cluster policies are sets of rules that Airflow administrators can define to mutate or perform custom logic on a few important Airflow objects:

- DAG
- Task
- Task Instance
- Pod
- Airflow Context variables

These policies allow administrators to centrally manage how Airflow users or DAG writers are interacting with the Airflow Cluster. Cluster policies can modify or restrict a user's capability based on organization policy or ensure that users conform to common standards. For example, you might want to ensure all DAGs have `tags` in your production Airflow environment.

> Cluster policies can be used to, for example, centrally:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are some common use cases for cluster policies:
```

- Enforce Task or DAG-level retries

> - Verify a DAG's `catchup` parameter based on production or development environment

Reviewer 3: Another common one is setting is_paused_upon_creation to True for non-prod deployments to save costs.

- `task_instance_mutation_hook` : This policy is applicable to a Task Instance, which is an instance of a Task object and is created at run time. It takes a TaskInstance object, `task_instance`, as a parameter. This policy applies not to a task but to the instance of a task that relates to a particular `DagRun`. It is only applied to the currently executed run (in other words, instance) of that task. The policy is applied to a task instance in an Airflow worker before the task instance is executed, not in the DAG file processor. 
- `pod_mutation_hook`: This policy is applicable to a Kubernetes Pod launched by `KubernetesPodOperator` or `KubernetesExecutor` at runtime. It takes a Pod object `pod` as a parameter. This policy is applied to the `kubernetes.client.models.V1Pod` object before it is passed to the Kubernetes client for scheduling. This cluster policy is available only from Aiflow version `2.6`.

> ## How cluster policies work

Reviewer 3: Consider splitting the content of the paragraph above into two parts. 
The way it is currently structured, we cover both the different types of policies and how they work in the same block. Since we have a section specifically for "How cluster policies work" with a diagram, we should rephrase above to only have the 4 types, then address how they work under the diagram.

![Cluster policies](/img/guides/airflow-advanced-cluster-policies_diagram.png)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## How to implement a cluster policy
```

Reviewer 3: The paragraphs after this do not match with the title. Let's add a new title.

Reviewer 3: We should also consider combining this section with the Implementation section below as we are jumping from topic to topic a bit right now.

```python
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s
from airflow.policies import hookimpl

@hookimpl
def pod_mutation_hook(pod) -> None:
    print("hello from pod_mutation_hook ",type(pod))

    resources = k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
        requests={
            "cpu": "100m",
            "memory": "256Mi",
        },
        limits={
            "cpu": "1000m",
            "memory": "1Gi",
        },
    )
    pod.spec.containers[0].resources = resources
```

## Implementation

In this section, we describe how to use `pluggy` to implement cluster policies for an Airflow project using Astro CLI. `pluggy` is useful for plugin management, allowing you to have multiple implementations of the policy functions.

Note that the `pluggy` method is available only in Airflow version 2.6 and above. For versions lower than 2.6, a similar implementation is possible using the `config/airflow_local_settings.py` file in your `$AIRFLOW_HOME`. You can define your policies within this file. There is no need to build or install any package when you use the `airflow_local_settings.py` file. However, Astro only supports the `pluggy` method.

### Step 1: Create a package for your policies

> The best way to implement cluster policies is to build a package for them that you apply to your Airflow environment. You can add this package to the `plugins` folder of your Astro project and install it by [customizing your `Dockerfile`](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/customize-dockerfile). This method uses `setuptools` entrypoint for your project. Read more about python packaging [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/writing-pyproject-toml/). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The simplest way to implement cluster policies is to build a package for them that you apply to your Airflow environment. You can add this package to the `plugins` folder of your Astro project and install it by [customizing your `Dockerfile`](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/customize-dockerfile). This method uses `setuptools` entrypoint for your project. Read more about python packaging [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/writing-pyproject-toml/). 
```

For example, you can create a package `plugin_package` with the following structure:

```bash
plugin/
│
├── src/
│   ├── __init__.py

> │   ├── plugin_package/

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
│   └── plugin_package/
```

│       ├── __init__.py

> │       ├── policy.py

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
│       └── policy.py
```

│
├── pyproject.toml

> ├── README.md

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
└── README.md
```

```

1. In the `pyproject.toml` file, add the following:

    ```bash
    [build-system]
    requires = ["setuptools >= 61.0"]
    build-backend = "setuptools.build_meta"

    [project]
    name = "my_package"
    version = "0.1.0"

>     dependencies = ["apache-airflow>=2.6"]

Reviewer 3: You may want to enforce python versions as well.

            )
    ```

    :::tip

    When using Airflow version lower than 2.6, you can define these policies in `confg/airflow_local_settings.py` and rebuild your local Astro project.

    :::

3. (Optional) Build the python package:

    ```bash
    python -m build
    ```

### Step 2: Setup your Astro project

1. Initialize your Astro project using the [Astro CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/astro/cli/get-started-cli) or reopen your Astro project.
    
2. Copy over your plugin package to the `plugins` directory of your Astro project.

3. Add the following line to your `Dockerfile`:

    ```docker
    COPY plugins plugins
    RUN pip install ./plugins
    ```

    :::tip Alternate setup

    To avoid copying over the source code or to reuse the package across multiple projects, it is recommended to `build` the plugin package. You can then choose to distribute the `wheel` file or upload the package to a private Python repository for easy management and version control. 

    You can copy  over the `wheel` file to the `plugins` directory and `pip install` in your `Dockerfile`:

    ```docker

>     RUN pip install include/plugin_package-0.1.0-py3-none-any.whl

Reviewer 3: The instructions say to copy the wheel in the plugins folder, but the commands reference the include folder.
You could also drop it at the root of the project and copy it yourself.
Also, it's nice to use wildcards in Dockerfile to support package upgrades without code changes in Dockerfile. 

COPY my_package-*.whl /usr/local/airflow
RUN pip install /usr/local/airflow/my_package-*.whl && rm /usr/local/airflow/my_package-*.whl

Reviewer 3: package name is my_package in the pyproject.toml. I'm pretty sure the built wheel will be named my_package... . Worth testing it.
